hi this is hongu from Motion circles.com
in to this video I'll show you the
breakdown of how I worked on this
animation and the full process behind
it time to level up your skills let's
[Music]
go so the first thing I want to talk
about is the storyboard whenever we have
a animation like this we always have a
storyboard in place we have a solid
Concept in place in terms of this
animation we do have a storyboard build
out it's an illustrator you can see
these are the different frames that we
have for the whole animation it's a very
short and simple storyboard teally we
have some grid animation in the first
scene with the spall traveling inside
this tunnel and then the grid is going
to flip to the side the ball is going to
drop from the top all the way inside
this middle circle gear it's going to do
some rotation and then zoom out to morph
into this I icon eye shape here and then
we're going to do some eye animation
there's going to be glow in the
background and there's also grid on the
ground then we're going to do some great
animation at the last scene as well and
we also did a color exploration for the
color palettes we have this red and the
gray version as well but in the end we
chose this yellow and green one because
it's got more contrast I like this color
better in terms of color palette you can
always go on this website that's called
coolors.co and then you can go to
explore Petes this page is going to show
you all the different color palette
that's being used by the different
designers all over the world so this is
a good resource for you to pick a very
convenient um color palette that you can
use for your project and you can
customize the Project based on your
liking so after we have the storyboard
in place let's go inside After
Effects we're inside this render folder
let's see the animation we have now
before we do the animation most of the
time we would select a music track that
goes with the animation in our mind and
uh we already have a music track here
I'm not sure if you can hear it when I
play it but uh it's good practice to
always have a music track first before
you start the animation so that when you
are animating you can always rely on the
music to give you more inspiration and
then it's going to make your movement
more to the beat of the
music but let's turn off the music let's
see the animation for now it's got a
good pace to it this is our final
animation I'll go through the animation
with you and see how we animated this
piece let's go to the first frame which
is our first storyboard based on our
illustrator file it's pretty
straightforward what we have is we build
out the grid inside illustrator and then
we use the extension plug-in called
Overlord to push this grid to after
effect so that we have two grid one is
top grid and then one bottom grid and
then if I show the key frames on the two
grids you can see we only animated the
position properly at first they're going
to be close to each other and then once
we go forward in time these two grid is
going to split and then show the yellow
tunnel that's behind the grid and then
at the same time we're going to animate
the main
Circle onto the scene with just the
scale change so basically we have
if I solo the background and the grid
and this is our grid
animation we only have a position change
as the grid grows to both sides and then
we have a rotation to have this grid
rotate to the side and show this tunnel
being flipped to the side and then once
we add the main ball this is going to be
our animation once we have the main ball
so this circle is going to pop into the
scene as as a grid grows or a flip to
the side the circle is going to slide to
the left first and then slide down and
on the circle we added this Echo effect
to make a smear out of the movement it
has look now let's pull up the yellow
tunnel and now let's see the full
animation with the circle and the yellow
tunnel pretty straightforward basically
we only animated the position the scale
and the rotation in this
scene and now let's go to the next scene
once we have the circle fli to the side
and then shooting down we will have this
circle coming from the top all the way
entering this little middle gradient
Circle and then we would have this
gradient
Circle which is Layer
Two do a rotation together with some
main
Circle just to give it more complexity
so that the two the color and the little
glowing ball is animating at the same
time it's got 1 two three three
different movement one drop and then one
rotate and then another
rotate with a zoom out at the
end and in terms of the circle we
animated the position property with the
circle dropping from the top with some
smear effect which is controlled by the
Echo and then we have some rotation and
scale changes as well so that's how we
animate the second
scene and then let's go to the third
scene in this scene it might look a bit
complex because in this scene it might
look a bit complex because we have this
grid that's going on we already built
out the grid inside illustrator so all
we need to do is to select all the grid
and then use the Overlord to push the
grid inside after effects and now that
we have it we basically just did one
simple scale change from a bigger grid
to a smaller grid so that the grid is
moving inside while the eye is
zooming
in the grid is zooming out so that we
have this parala
effect and we have
this ey animation with the
circle parent it and then just going to
going to be moving around a couple times
I can show you the motion path of my
pupil so in terms of the pupil there's
only a position change with the eye
coming to the side and then move to this
side as well and then going back to the
middle and at the end we have a zooming
out motion controlled by a null
object
all right let's go with the third frame
and then let's go to the last frame and
take a look before we continue make sure
to like this video And subscribe to the
channel we'll publish new content every
week click the Subscribe button to level
up your animation skills and get
inspired with great animation every week
you can also join our exclusive
Community to hang out with motion
designers to grow together check the
link in the description below so this is
a frame that I want to focus on this
tutorial because I want to show you how
we animated this great animation in the
last
scene basically we have this Cube that's
coming
up and then we have this GD animation at
the back in terms of grd Animation let
me show you how we did that let's create
a composition let's call this one GD
animation and then all we need to do is
to draw a line's turn on the title
action save and then let's draw a
straight line
make the width to be maybe three
points and then let's go inside the
content let's add a repeater to our
line now that we have a repeater in
terms of the copy let's do 15 copies and
then in terms of the offset let's change
it the offset to a y position offset
with maybe 100 pixels so that we have
all these different lines that's going
down all the way way exiting the scene
that we have and then what we need to do
is to add another repeater let's go
click content add and different repeater
repeater 2 and what we need to do is in
terms of copy let's do a for copy we're
going to repeat what we had above the
second repeater and in terms of the
transform I'm going to change this 100
in the X position to zero and then I'm
going to change the rotation to 90° so
that we have this grid that's going on
however it's not long enough because our
original copy is not long enough so we
what we need to do is to select this
original copy and make it
longer so that our
repeater is actually going outside
vertically outside of the scene that
looks pretty good and then what we need
to do is to slightly
adjust the position of the second
repeater so that there're lining
better yeah something like this and now
if I go to my shape and then go to
animate
the scale property of my original one
line let's unclick the scale and then
let's animate this from
zero
to
100 we're going to get this kind of
Animation this is the animation we get
and let's just go to Easy E
e like
this and then next what we need to do is
we need to go to the first
repeater let's go down inside the
transform let's animate the scale again
over here let's add a key frame the same
way we animated the first line we can
change this one to zero as well and then
let's see what it looks like this way
we're going to have this almost like a
diamond Shipe reveal of our patterns
once we have these two key frames added
in and then let's go
inside to modify this
curve to give it a bit more
energy and let's see our
animation that looks pretty good and
then what we need to do it's still
pretty static so what we want to do
is
we also want to animate the position
change this position change of the first
repeater is going to basically contain
it's basically going to manipulate
the distance between each of the lines
that we had so we're going to have
maybe a bigger number 200 at the
beginning and then let's do maybe a
smaller number 100 at the end delete
this one let's go
add a easy ease and then manipulate the
curve
again and then let's offside the key
frame let's see the
animation that looks pretty good and
next what we need to do is we can go to
our we can go to our transform property
that controls everything on this layer
let's add a rotation property maybe give
it two seconds and then at the beginning
let's change it to
90° let's go e the easy key frame and
then change the curve let's see what it
looks like now we're going to have this
complex animation with the grid
revealing with some rotation to it so
this is the type of Animation that we
get in our last frame of the animation
in order to animate
the grid that we
had I think
the position change is not obvious
enough so I'm going to put this one
maybe to
200 and
then at the beginning let's change it to
maybe
250 so that we have a very obvious
zooming
out something like that I think that
works and then if we want to make it
disappear we could just go adjust the
stroke WID maybe change it to
zero and then it's going to
disappear and then if we duplicate this
layer let's hide the second one let's
work on the first one again if we have a
original size of this stroke width let's
go to the stroke width if the original
stroke width is much bigger let's say if
it's 200 and then everything is going to
be 200 around this position over here
here and then I'm going to just easy
ease this
one change the curve a little bit so
what we're going to get is going to be
this very weird transition as an alpham
mat and in the previous animation I'm
using this alphat as a transition to my
scene overall and then you can also see
there's going to be these different type
of grid once we have adjusted the stroke
width and it just based on the stroke
width we're going to get different type
of animation
and then we can also control all these
different properties in the grid setting
or the repeater setting to get the
animation that we
want and that's how we created this last
piece of
animation and if we go back to the main
scene there you go that's how we
animated this piece over
[Music]
here that's it with this video hope you
like it and learned a couple tips and
tricks for your next project don't
forget to hit the like button and
subscribe to our Channel let me know if
this video is helpful in the comments
down below and what other videos or
tutorials you would like to see on this
channel i' love to hear your feedback
one last thing don't forget to join our
exclusive Community to hang out with
your fellow designers stay on top of the
industry Trends and grow together thank
you so much for watching this video I'll
see you in the next
one
[Music]
m